feat(blog): Kubernetes blog post (#228)
someengineering/resoto.com: blog/2022/06-22-kubernetes-support/index.md

![PersistentVolume](./img/persistent_volume.svg)

Resoto has a common data model for resources that abstracts from the underlying provider. Every resource inherits the properties from the base `resource`, which defines properties like `id`, `name`, `age`, `last_update`, `tags` etc. Every resource in Kubernetes is also of type `kubernetes_resource`, which brings in additional properties like a `resource_version`, `labels`, and an optional `namespace` property, which is defined for all namespaced resources. Annotations of a Kubernetes resource are available as `tags` and can be modified via the [`tag`](/docs/reference/cli/tag) command. Common abstractions apply as well. A [PersistentVolume](/docs/reference/data-models/kubernetes#kubernetes_persistent_volume) is of base type `volume`. So it shares the same kind and properties with other volumes of other cloud providers, e.g. an [`EBSVolume`](/docs/reference/data-models/aws#aws_ec2_volume) in AWS or a [`Disk`](/docs/reference/data-models/gcp#gcp_disk) in GCP. The same idea applies to a Kubernetes [node](/docs/reference/data-models/kubernetes#kubernetes_node) which is of base type `instance` etc.

> Kubernetes has its own way of describing a resource, which is available in Resoto as well. The three main sections `metadata`, `spec`, and `status` can be found in almost any resource. The data in the `metadata` section is basically covered by the base `resource` properties (`id`, `name`, `tags`, etc.). The `spec` section usually holds the desired state, while the `status` section holds the current state. Both sections are unique to the resource type. Since Resoto allows searching on any resource property, we made the `spec` and `status` section unique to the resource type. So a `Pod` in Resoto has a `pod_spec` and `pod_status` section, while a `Deployment` has a `deployment_spec` and `deployment_status` section. The relevant spec and status sections have the same specific data model as the Kubernetes resource.

Reviewer: new paragraph before "Both sections are unique"

You can find a complete reference in our [resource reference](/docs/reference/data-models/kubernetes).

## Searching the Graph

Since all Kubernetes resources share the same base kind `kubernetes_resource`, we can filter the graph by this resource type. This is the output for the 2 clusters we have configured:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_resource) | count kind

> kubernetes_job: 1

Reviewer: I think a reader would benefit from understanding what they're looking at with the results. You describe the properties in the data model. I'd expect something like:

"Below is the output for the 2 clusters we have configured. You can see how the search result contains the different properties from Resoto's data model, and the corresponding value. "

something like that.

kubernetes_storage_class: 2
kubernetes_mutating_webhook_configuration: 3
kubernetes_validating_webhook_configuration: 4
kubernetes_priority_class: 4
kubernetes_pod_disruption_budget: 5
kubernetes_volume_attachment: 6
kubernetes_node: 6
kubernetes_csi_node: 6
kubernetes_persistent_volume_claim: 7
kubernetes_persistent_volume: 7
kubernetes_stateful_set: 7
kubernetes_daemon_set: 11
kubernetes_priority_level_configuration: 14
kubernetes_namespace: 14
kubernetes_flow_schema: 22
kubernetes_deployment: 25
kubernetes_role: 31
kubernetes_role_binding: 32
kubernetes_controller_revision: 37
kubernetes_endpoint_slice: 45
kubernetes_service: 45
kubernetes_endpoint: 47
kubernetes_replica_set: 63
kubernetes_pod: 70
kubernetes_config_map: 73
kubernetes_service_account: 122
kubernetes_secret: 160
kubernetes_cluster_role_binding: 166
kubernetes_cluster_role: 193
total matched: 1234
total unmatched: 0
```

How many pods are running on each node in the cluster?

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) | count /ancestors.kubernetes_node.reported.name

helm2-cjhg9: 7
analytics-u1wtx: 11
helm2-cjhgz: 11
analytics-u1wtj: 11
analytics-u1wto: 15
helm2-cjhg1: 15
total matched: 70
total unmatched: 0
```

> Reveal general information about the Kubernetes clusters, including version and server URL:

Reviewer: I would reformulate this sentence as a question.

> search is(kubernetes_service) and name~resotocore | dump

id: AS-E-YjvAftQUcuUmNC52g
reported:
  ctime: '2022-04-20T14:52:58Z'
  id: df8f6c37-5542-4e17-b2f4-bb6caaa2ba17
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/instance: resoto
    app.kubernetes.io/managed-by: Helm
    app.kubernetes.io/name: resoto
    app.kubernetes.io/version: 2.2.0
    helm.sh/chart: resoto-0.2.0
    resoto: core
  name: resoto-resotocore
  namespace: resoto
  resource_version: '51578078'
  service_spec:
    cluster_ip: 10.245.133.206
    cluster_ips:
    - 10.245.133.206
    external_ips: []
    external_traffic_policy: Cluster
    ip_families:
    - IPv4
    ip_family_policy: SingleStack
    load_balancer_source_ranges: []
    ports:
    - name: http
      node_port: 32648
      port: 8900
      protocol: TCP
      target_port: api
    session_affinity: None
    type: LoadBalancer
  service_status:
    conditions: []
    load_balancer:
      ingress:
      - ip: 132.159.204.142
        ports: []
  tags:
    kubernetes.digitalocean.com/load-balancer-id: 03d5ed66-fefe-41fb-a3f6-9a0e43560adb
    meta.helm.sh/release-name: resoto
    meta.helm.sh/release-namespace: resoto
  kind: kubernetes_service
  age: 1mo29d
```

> Use fulltext search to find resources, that match any property no matter where it is defined:

Reviewer: I think Fulltext search deserves a call out as a specific feature and explain how it works, before you show how to use it. it's one of our biggest differentiators. 

I'd also include a link to the docs: https://resoto.com/docs/concepts/search

kubernetes_role: 31
kubernetes_role_binding: 32
kubernetes_controller_revision: 37
kubernetes_endpoint_slice: 45
kubernetes_service: 45
kubernetes_endpoint: 47
kubernetes_replica_set: 63
kubernetes_pod: 70
kubernetes_config_map: 73
kubernetes_service_account: 122
kubernetes_secret: 160
kubernetes_cluster_role_binding: 166
kubernetes_cluster_role: 193
total matched: 1234
total unmatched: 0
```

Can we reveal general information about the Kubernetes clusters? This query shows all available clusters including version and server URL:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_cluster) | list cluster_info

major=1, minor=21, platform=linux/amd64, server_url=https://31e9afd3-xxxxx.k8s.ondigitalocean.com
major=1, minor=21, platform=linux/amd64, server_url=https://9a3ac2b5-xxxxx.k8s.ondigitalocean.com
```

Now we can start asking questions about the state of our Kubernetes infrastructure. For example, how many pods are running on each node in the cluster?

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) | count /ancestors.kubernetes_node.reported.name

helm2-cjhg9: 7
analytics-u1wtx: 11
helm2-cjhgz: 11
analytics-u1wtj: 11
analytics-u1wto: 15
helm2-cjhg1: 15
total matched: 70
total unmatched: 0
```

> You want to see details? Let us get the information that has been collected about a Kubernetes service with name `resotocore`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You want to see details? Let's retrieve the information that has been collected about a Kubernetes service with name `resotocore`:
```
